The Evolution - Part 2

1939:
	Howard Aiken while doing a PhD in physics at Harvard University, inspired 
    by the Charles Babbage difference engine, started working on an electro-mechanical 
    computing device that 
Could do the calculation for him. And this is called ASCC (Automatic Sequence Controlled Calculator) 
and was later renamed Harvard Mark 1.

Build by IBM 8 feet high and 51 feet long. and completed in 1943. Grace hopper was 
the coauthor of the ascc manual.

	Konrad Zuse, developed one of the first electromechanical relay computers.




1941 : 

Zuse built the world's first working electromechanical programmable, 
fully automatic digital computer with floating-point representation. 
Configuration : 
2600 relays
Memory : 22 bit word length
Clock frequency: 5 to 10 hz
Punched card to supply the program code to the machine
Data stored in 64 words of memory

Rather than using a decimal number system like Charles' Babbage system, 
he used a binary system which made his machines easier to build and reliable.

The problem with Babbage and other machines is relying on mechanical 
assemblies of gears, wheels and levers and rods. 

1942: John Vincent Atanasoff and Clifford E Berry of Iowa State University 
developed and tested the Atanasoff berry computer ABC. the first automatic electronic digital computer

The partial design used 300 vacuum tubes and capacitors(a device that can store 
an electrical charge) fixed in a mechanically rotating drum 
For memory. Its weight was around 700 pounds.


World War 2: 1939 to 1945:

During world war 2, the British at Bletchley part worked on breaking encrypted 
German military communications machine Enigma. 

1943: Max Newman along with his colleagues built a colossus to attack the Germans Enigma.
Colossus was the world's first electronic digital programmable computer made with vacuum tubes.


1941 to 1947

But at the beginning of the 20th century, people came up with a new idea that did 
not rely on mechanical components. The first significant one of these all electronic 
machines was ENIAC, an electronic numerical integrator and computer which was built 
during the 1940s at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia by Presper Eckert and John Mauchly.


The size of Eniac was a large room that required a large amount of electric power 
but the result was spectacular. It could do about 5000 additions or subtractions in 
one second. It also had modules to multiply divide and square roots. The reason for 
building Eniac is to use it for ballistics computations. But it was not completed until 
1946 world war 2.

Memory is restricted to only 20 words or 80 bytes.
It had used 17000 vacuum tubes and in case of a tube failure (quite common for every two days), 
it would take 15 minutes to locate.
Eniac: consumed 150 kilowatts of power of which 80 kilowatts were just used for heating tubes. 
45 kW for dc power supplies and 20kw for ventilation blowers and 5 kws for punched card equipment.
Weight 30 tons

Eniac is faster than colossus and it was Turing complete. In this machine, once the program 
is done, ENIAC girls 6 members had to manually set the program into the machine by resetting plugs and switches. 

Regardless of ENIAC's claims on inventing the first digital computer, the patent was thrown out 
by the court in 1973. Because it was ABC who did the first digital computer.

Unlike Babbage, ENIAC did not store instructions in the memory along with the data, instead, 
It was programmed by setting up the connection through switches and recabling. 

1949 : 
EDSAC: Electronic delay storage automatic calculator which can store programs and data 
together was first built in England.

1947: with the invention of transistors, the modern era of computing relay began.

1950: Turing's test for artificial Intelligence

1952: Grace Hopper develops first computer compiler

1955: transistors replaced vacuum tubes

1957: Robert Noyce and Gorden Moore started Fairchild Semiconductors

1958: Integrated circuits - the modern era of computing began.
	This allowed electronic systems to become smaller cheaper and faster


With that, we have finished the articles related to history and starting
next article, we will be discussing hardware in detail.

Reference for these Articles : 
Youtube: Computer History Museum Channel
Books: Code, Understanding the Digital World.
